README.md, before:

# Introduction

The purpose of this resources is to create a valuable learning resource for our PI’s, medical students, Fellows, and support staff who are increasingly invested in learning more about data analysis to become better researchers

# Contents
* Code Corresponding to Specific Manuscripts
* Code Used in Multiple Manuscripts]
  * ADL/IADL
  * Charlson Comorbidity Index
  * Cognitive Measures for SAS
  * Elixhauser Index
  * HRS Functional Measure
  * National Health and Aging Trends Study (NHATS) ADL/IADL

# Code Corresponding to Specific Manuscripts
### "Geriatric Syndromes and Atrial Fibrillation: Prevalence and Association with Anticoagulant use in a National Cohort of Older Americans" 
Sachin J. Shah, MD, MPH (1); Margaret C. Fang, MD, MPH (1); Sun Y. Jeon, MS, PhD (2); Steven Gregorich, PhD (3); Kenneth E. Covinsky, MD, MPH (2)

Division of Hospital Medicine, University of California, San Francisco, CA, USA
Division of Geriatrics, University of California, San Francisco, CA, USA
Division of General Internal Medicine, University of California, San Francisco, CA, USA

#### [view manuscript](https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC6694766/) | [view repository](https://github.com/sachinjshah/AF-geriatric-syndrome-2014)


### "A Novel Method for Identifying a Parsimonious and Accurate Predictive Model for Multiple Clinical Outcomes" 
L. Grisell Diaz-Ramirez MS,a,b Sei J. Lee MD,a,b Alexander K. Smith MD,a,b Siqi Gan MS,a,b W. John Boscardin PhDa,b

Division of Hospital Medicine, University of California, San Francisco, CA, USA
Division of Geriatrics, University of California, San Francisco, CA, USA
Division of General Internal Medicine, University of California, San Francisco, CA, USA

#### manuscript(under review) | [view repository](https://github.com/UCSFGeriatrics/multiple-outcomes-selection)



# Code Used in Multiple Manuscripts

#### [ADL/IADL](https://github.com/UCSFGeriatrics/Manuscript-Code/blob/master/Derived-ADL-IADL.md) - written by Grisell Diaz-Ramirez, MS
###### Publications 
* Brown RT, Diaz-Ramirez LG, Boscardin WJ, Lee SJ, Williams BA, Steinman MA. Association of Functional Impairment in Middle Age With Hospitalization, Nursing Home Admission, and Death. JAMA Intern Med. 2019 Apr 8. doi:10.1001/jamainternmed.2019.0008. PMID: 30958504.

* Brown RT, Diaz-Ramirez LG, Boscardin WJ, Lee SJ, Steinman MA. Functional Impairment and Decline in Middle Age: A Cohort Study. Ann Intern Med. 2017 Dec 05; 167(11):761-768. doi: 10.7326/M17-0496. PMID: 29132150.

#### [Charlson Comoribidty Index (for SAS)](https://github.com/UCSFGeriatrics/Manuscript-Code/blob/master/CharlsonComorbidity.md) - written by: Kathy Fung, MS

#### [Cognitive measures (for SAS)](https://github.com/UCSFGeriatrics/Manuscript-Code/blob/master/CompositeMemoryScore.md) - written by Grisell Diaz-Ramirez, MS
###### Publications 
* Wu Q, Tchetgen Tchetgen EJ, Osypuk TL, White K, Mujahid M, Glymour MM. 2013. Combining Direct and Proxy Assessments to Reduce Attrition Bias in a Longitudinal Study. Alzheimer Dis. Assoc Disord 27, No. 3, pp: 207-212

* Whitlock EL, Diaz-Ramirez LG, Smith AK, Boscardin WJ, Avidan MS, Glymour MM. Cognitive Change After Cardiac Surgery Versus Cardiac Catheterization: A Population-Based Study. Ann Thorac Surg. 2019 Apr. 107(4):1119-1125. doi: 10.1016/j.athoracsur.2018.10.021. PMID: 30578068.

* Whitlock EL, Diaz-Ramirez LG, Glymour MM, Boscardin WJ, Covinsky KE, Smith AK. Association Between Persistent Pain and Memory Decline and Dementia in a Longitudinal Cohort of Elders. JAMA Intern Med. 2017 Aug 01; 177(8):1146-1153. doi: 10.1001/jamainternmed.2017.1622. PMID: 28586818.

#### [Elixhauser, updated with ICD10](https://github.com/UCSFGeriatrics/Manuscript-Code/blob/master/Elixhauser_ICD9_ICD10_coding.txt)- written by Bocheng Jing, MS

#### [HRS Frailty Measure](https://github.com/UCSFGeriatrics/Manuscript-Code/blob/master/frailtyscore_gdr_20200729.sas)- written by Grisell Diaz-Ramirez, MS
###### Note: 
* this code was based off of the work noted in Cigolle CT, Ofstedal MB, Tian Z, Blaum CS.  Comparing models of frailty: the health and retirement study.  JAGS 2009 May; 57(5):830-9 

###### Publications
* Whitlock EL, Diaz-Ramirez LG, Smith AK, Boscardin WJ, Avidan MS, Glymour MM. Cognitive Change After Cardiac Surgery Versus Cardiac Catheterization:A Population-Based Study. Ann Thorac Surg. 2019 Apr. 107(4):1119-1125. doi: 10.1016/j.athoracsur.2018.10.021. PMID: 30578068. 

#### [NHATS ADL/IADL](https://github.com/UCSFGeriatrics/Manuscript-Code/blob/master/NHATS_ADL_IADL.md)- written by Kanan Patel, MS
###### Publications
* Harrison KL, Ritchie CS, Patel K, Hunt LJ, Covinsky KE, Yaffe K, Smith AK. Care Settings and Clinical Characteristics of Older Adults with Moderately Severe Dementia. J Am Geriatr Soc. 2019; 67(9):1907-1912. PMID: 31389002

# Additional Resources
### Geriatric Research Algorithms & Statistical Programs (GRASP) - hosted by OAIC National Coordinating Center Site
https://www.peppercenter.org/public/grasp.cfm

GRASP, a curated list of statistical analysis programs useful to biostatisticians engaged in studies of human aging, is an Internet resource development project of the Claude D. Pepper Older Americans Independence Centers at Yale University, Duke University and Wake Forest University. Development of the content was originally supported by National Institute on Aging grant 2P30 AG021342-06S1 to Yale University and is currently supported by National Institute on Aging grant numbers U24AG05964 for the OAIC CCC and R33 AG045050 for the Aging Initiative. GRASP topics can include downloadable code, sample data, links to online resources and any number of associated documents.

Commit message:

add new manuscript repo link
added link to Changes in the Hierarchy of Functional Impairment from Middle Age to Older Age

README.md, after:

# Introduction

The purpose of this resources is to create a valuable learning resource for our PI’s, medical students, Fellows, and support staff who are increasingly invested in learning more about data analysis to become better researchers

# Contents
* Code Corresponding to Specific Manuscripts
* Code Used in Multiple Manuscripts]
  * ADL/IADL
  * Charlson Comorbidity Index
  * Cognitive Measures for SAS
  * Elixhauser Index
  * HRS Functional Measure
  * National Health and Aging Trends Study (NHATS) ADL/IADL

# Code Corresponding to Specific Manuscripts


https://github.com/UCSFGeriatrics/hierarchy-functional-impairment#changes-in-the-hierarchy-of-functional-impairment-from-middle-age-to-older-age

### "Changes in the Hierarchy of Functional Impairment from Middle Age to Older Age"
Rebecca T. Brown, MD, MPH, L. Grisell Diaz-Ramirez, MS, W. John Boscardin, PhD, Anne R. Cappola, MD, ScM, Sei J. Lee, MD, MAS, Michael A. Steinman, MD

#### manuscript (under review) | [view repository](https://github.com/UCSFGeriatrics/hierarchy-functional-impairment#changes-in-the-hierarchy-of-functional-impairment-from-middle-age-to-older-age)

### "Geriatric Syndromes and Atrial Fibrillation: Prevalence and Association with Anticoagulant use in a National Cohort of Older Americans" 
Sachin J. Shah, MD, MPH (1); Margaret C. Fang, MD, MPH (1); Sun Y. Jeon, MS, PhD (2); Steven Gregorich, PhD (3); Kenneth E. Covinsky, MD, MPH (2)

Division of Hospital Medicine, University of California, San Francisco, CA, USA
Division of Geriatrics, University of California, San Francisco, CA, USA
Division of General Internal Medicine, University of California, San Francisco, CA, USA

#### [view manuscript](https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC6694766/) | [view repository](https://github.com/sachinjshah/AF-geriatric-syndrome-2014)


### "A Novel Method for Identifying a Parsimonious and Accurate Predictive Model for Multiple Clinical Outcomes" 
L. Grisell Diaz-Ramirez MS,a,b Sei J. Lee MD,a,b Alexander K. Smith MD,a,b Siqi Gan MS,a,b W. John Boscardin PhDa,b

Division of Hospital Medicine, University of California, San Francisco, CA, USA
Division of Geriatrics, University of California, San Francisco, CA, USA
Division of General Internal Medicine, University of California, San Francisco, CA, USA

#### manuscript(under review) | [view repository](https://github.com/UCSFGeriatrics/multiple-outcomes-selection)



# Code Used in Multiple Manuscripts

#### [ADL/IADL](https://github.com/UCSFGeriatrics/Manuscript-Code/blob/master/Derived-ADL-IADL.md) - written by Grisell Diaz-Ramirez, MS
###### Publications 
* Brown RT, Diaz-Ramirez LG, Boscardin WJ, Lee SJ, Williams BA, Steinman MA. Association of Functional Impairment in Middle Age With Hospitalization, Nursing Home Admission, and Death. JAMA Intern Med. 2019 Apr 8. doi:10.1001/jamainternmed.2019.0008. PMID: 30958504.

* Brown RT, Diaz-Ramirez LG, Boscardin WJ, Lee SJ, Steinman MA. Functional Impairment and Decline in Middle Age: A Cohort Study. Ann Intern Med. 2017 Dec 05; 167(11):761-768. doi: 10.7326/M17-0496. PMID: 29132150.

#### [Charlson Comoribidty Index (for SAS)](https://github.com/UCSFGeriatrics/Manuscript-Code/blob/master/CharlsonComorbidity.md) - written by: Kathy Fung, MS

#### [Cognitive measures (for SAS)](https://github.com/UCSFGeriatrics/Manuscript-Code/blob/master/CompositeMemoryScore.md) - written by Grisell Diaz-Ramirez, MS
###### Publications 
* Wu Q, Tchetgen Tchetgen EJ, Osypuk TL, White K, Mujahid M, Glymour MM. 2013. Combining Direct and Proxy Assessments to Reduce Attrition Bias in a Longitudinal Study. Alzheimer Dis. Assoc Disord 27, No. 3, pp: 207-212

* Whitlock EL, Diaz-Ramirez LG, Smith AK, Boscardin WJ, Avidan MS, Glymour MM. Cognitive Change After Cardiac Surgery Versus Cardiac Catheterization: A Population-Based Study. Ann Thorac Surg. 2019 Apr. 107(4):1119-1125. doi: 10.1016/j.athoracsur.2018.10.021. PMID: 30578068.

* Whitlock EL, Diaz-Ramirez LG, Glymour MM, Boscardin WJ, Covinsky KE, Smith AK. Association Between Persistent Pain and Memory Decline and Dementia in a Longitudinal Cohort of Elders. JAMA Intern Med. 2017 Aug 01; 177(8):1146-1153. doi: 10.1001/jamainternmed.2017.1622. PMID: 28586818.

#### [Elixhauser, updated with ICD10](https://github.com/UCSFGeriatrics/Manuscript-Code/blob/master/Elixhauser_ICD9_ICD10_coding.txt)- written by Bocheng Jing, MS

#### [HRS Frailty Measure](https://github.com/UCSFGeriatrics/Manuscript-Code/blob/master/frailtyscore_gdr_20200729.sas)- written by Grisell Diaz-Ramirez, MS
###### Note: 
* this code was based off of the work noted in Cigolle CT, Ofstedal MB, Tian Z, Blaum CS.  Comparing models of frailty: the health and retirement study.  JAGS 2009 May; 57(5):830-9 

###### Publications
* Whitlock EL, Diaz-Ramirez LG, Smith AK, Boscardin WJ, Avidan MS, Glymour MM. Cognitive Change After Cardiac Surgery Versus Cardiac Catheterization:A Population-Based Study. Ann Thorac Surg. 2019 Apr. 107(4):1119-1125. doi: 10.1016/j.athoracsur.2018.10.021. PMID: 30578068. 

#### [NHATS ADL/IADL](https://github.com/UCSFGeriatrics/Manuscript-Code/blob/master/NHATS_ADL_IADL.md)- written by Kanan Patel, MS
###### Publications
* Harrison KL, Ritchie CS, Patel K, Hunt LJ, Covinsky KE, Yaffe K, Smith AK. Care Settings and Clinical Characteristics of Older Adults with Moderately Severe Dementia. J Am Geriatr Soc. 2019; 67(9):1907-1912. PMID: 31389002

# Additional Resources
### Geriatric Research Algorithms & Statistical Programs (GRASP) - hosted by OAIC National Coordinating Center Site
https://www.peppercenter.org/public/grasp.cfm

GRASP, a curated list of statistical analysis programs useful to biostatisticians engaged in studies of human aging, is an Internet resource development project of the Claude D. Pepper Older Americans Independence Centers at Yale University, Duke University and Wake Forest University. Development of the content was originally supported by National Institute on Aging grant 2P30 AG021342-06S1 to Yale University and is currently supported by National Institute on Aging grant numbers U24AG05964 for the OAIC CCC and R33 AG045050 for the Aging Initiative. GRASP topics can include downloadable code, sample data, links to online resources and any number of associated documents.
